
# Anatomy of a Form
A form begins with an opening **&lt;form&gt;** tag and ends with a closing **&lt;/form&gt;** tag. 
Inside that form element, the browser can expect to find some special HTML elements that can capture data in some way.

## The Form Element
A form begins with the form element. There are a few important attributes in an opening **&lt;form&gt;** tag:

- **id**: The id of the form.
- **name**: Assigns a name to the form. This is used when referencing the form with stylesheets or scripts. If there are multiple forms, the name of each form must be unique.
- **method**: This tells the browser how to send the data to the server from the form when the user clicks the submit button. The options are **get** and **post**.
- **action**: This attribute tells the browser where to send the data that was collected in the form. It specifies the URL of the page that will process the form.
- **autocomplete**: Specifies whether the form fields should be automatically completed based on the user's history 
(i.e. based on previous forms that the user has completed). This relieves the user from having to 
re-enter form data that could easily be re-populated from previous form history (such as address information). 
The autocomplete attribute is an enumerated attribute which has two states; "on" and "off". The default value is "on". 
- **novalidate**: Specifies that the form should not be validated during submission. 
The novalidate attribute is a boolean attribute. When present, it specifies that the form-data (input) should not be validated when submitted. Possible values: 
  - &lt;form novalidate&gt; 
  - &lt;form novalidate="novalidate"&gt; 
  - &lt;form novalidate=""&gt;
