
# required, pattern, and title

## required

The **required** attribute is a boolean attribute. 
When present, it specifies that an **&lt;input&gt;** field must be filled out before submitting the form.

## pattern
The pattern attribute specifies a regular expression that the **&lt;input&gt;** element's value is checked against.
Examples:

- pattern="[a-zA-Z0-9]": All alphanumeric characters.
- pattern="[A-Za-z]{3}" : Three letter code.
- pattern = "[A-Z][a-z]+( [A-Z][a-z]+)*": Name (with optional second name, and more names...).
- pattern ="\S{6,}": At least 6 characters (excluding space, tab, newline, carriage return, form feed).
- pattern="\d{4,8}": Matches at least 4 digits but no more than 8 digits.
- pattern = "^(\(\d{3}\)|\d{3})-?\d{6,9}$": Telephone number (9 - 12 digits), which allows for brackets and hyphens(-).
- pattern="https?://[a-zA-Z]{3}\.[a-zA-Z0-9]{2,}\.[a-zA-Z0-9]{2,}": URL.
- pattern = "^[_a-z0-9-]+(\.[_a-z0-9-]+)*@[a-z0-9-]+(\.[a-z0-9-]+)*(\.[a-z]{2,4})$": Email address.
- pattern="^(?=.*\d)(?=.*[a-z])(?=.*[A-Z])(?!.*\s).{6,}$": Password which at least 6 characters which include at least one capital letter and at least one number.

### Regular Expressions
A **regular expression**, or **regex** for short, is a pattern describing a certain amount of text. 
The most basic regular expression consists of a single literal character, such as [a].
It matches the first occurrence of that character in the string.

**Character Class**
A character class matches only one out of several characters. Examples include [aeiou] or [0-9] or [A-Za-z].

**Shorthand Character classes**
Shorthand Character classes include \d matches a single character that is a digit; \w matches a "word character" (alphanumeric characters plus underscore); and \s matches a whitespace character (includes tabs and line breaks).

**Anchors**
Anchors do not match any characters. They match a position.^ matches at the start of the string, and $ matches at the end of the string. \b matches at a word boundary.

**Alternation**
Alternation is the regular expression equivalent of "or". cat|dog matches cat in About cats and dogs. You can add as many alternatives as you want, for example cat|dog|mouse|fish. 
Alternation has the lowest precedence of all regex operators. cat|dog food matches the word cat or the words dog food. To create a regex that matches cat food or dog food, you need to group the alternatives, like as follows: (cat|dog) food.

**Repetition**

- The question mark(?) makes the preceding token in the regular expression optional. For example colou?r matches colour or color. 
- The asterisk or star(*) tells the engine to attempt to match the preceding token zero or more times. 
- The plus(+) tells the engine to attempt to match the preceding token once or more. 
- Use curly braces({}) to specify a specific amount of repetition. Use \[1-9][0-9]{3} to match a number between 1000 and 9999.

A good website on Regular Expressions is <a href="http://www.regular-expressions.info/quickstart.html" target="_blank">Regular Expressions Quick Start</a>, while
a good website for obtaining patterns is <a href="http://html5pattern.com" target="_blank">HTML5 Pattern</a>.
##title

The value of the **title** attribute is used to display the validation error message.

Take a look at this <a href = "archives/Class Htmls/form1.html" target = "_blank">Form Example</a> that includes validation 
through the above attributes.

**Note**: In this last example, we use the CSS pseudo-classes **:valid** and **:invalid**. These selectors enable you to 
style an input field based on the input type or a pattern. 
For example, a URL field can have a red border around it until a correctly formatted address is entered.