
# Grid Facts

## Containers

Grids should be placed within a container (i.e. using either **.container** class or the **.container-fluid** class) for proper 
padding and alignment.

##Rows & Columns

Rows contain one or more columns. Columns contain the content. Only columns can be immediate children of rows.

##Padding

Columns contain padding. However, the padding on the first and last columns is offset by a negative margin on the row. 

##More than 12 Columns per Row?

If more than 12 columns are placed in a row, the columns will wrap to a new line. That is, columns will wrap as a group. 
So for example, if a row contains a **col-md-10** and a **col-md-3**, then the whole **col-md-3** will wrap to the new line.

##Less than 12 Columns per Row?

You don't have to use up all 12 columns. You can use any number of columns up to 12 (before it will wrap to the next line).       
For example, you could have a row where the total column count spans say, 3 columns.

##Grid Classes

Grid classes apply to devices with screen widths greater than or equal to the breakpoint sizes, 
and override grid classes targeted at smaller devices. So using any **.col-sm-*** class will affect not only small viewports, 
but also medium, large, and extra large (unless there's also a **col-md-*** and/or **col-lg-*** and/or **col-xl-*** present).

##Multiple Classes

You can use multiple class sizes for a given element. For example, you could use **class="col-sm-10 col-md-6"**
to specify 10 columns for small viewports and 6 columns for medium and large viewports.