# Borders

By default most HTML elements don't have a border but CSS gives you plenty of options to define one. You can place borders around any element you wish such as paragraphs, navigation areas, etc.

Border effects include:

- Various border styles.
- Different border thicknesses.
- A range of border colours.

The CSS properties we can use to achieve these effects are:

- border-style
- border-width
- border-color


## Specifying a border

### Setting the properties separately

When specifying a border, there are three properties that we can set: border-width, border-style and border-color. To specify these properties separately, the following CSS would be used:

```css
.simpleblackborder {
  border-width: 5px;
  border-style: solid;
  border-color: black;
}
```


### Setting properties together (the shorthand approach)

As we have seen, there are three CSS properties required for styling a border (border-style, border-width, and border-color). We can set up a border using just one property, instead of all three. The CSS for this would look as follows:

```css
.container {
  border: 5px solid black;
}
```

Note: The default border is no border at all, so you need to specify the border-style property at all times. The values for border-style are:
solid, inset, outset, ridge, groove, dotted, dashed, double. This <a href="archives/examples/borders.htm" target="_blank">example</a> shows how each individual border appears on the screen.


### Styling Individual Sides of an Element
You can style individual edges of the element using border-top, border-bottom, border-left, and border-right. Here's an example of a block that has different styles applied to each of its sides:

```css
.multiborder {
  border-top-width: 1px;
  border-top-style: solid;
  border-top-color: red;
  border-bottom-width: 3px;
  border-bottom-style: dotted;
  border-bottom-color: blue;
  border-left-width: 5px;
  border-left-style: dashed;
  border-left-color: yellow;
  border-right-width: 7px;
  border-right-style: double;
  border-right-color: fuchsia;
}
```

<a href="archives/examples/multiborder.htm" target="_blank">Individual borders example</a>


### Border Radius
As an addition to CSS3, the ability to define border radius was added, effectively giving developers the possibility to make rounded corners on their elements. The CSS3 border-radius property allows web developers to easily utilise rounder corners in their design elements, without the need for corner images or the use of multiple div tags, and is perhaps one of the most talked about aspects of CSS3.

The border-radius property enjoys widespread browser support (although with some discrepancies) and, with relative ease of use, web developers have been quick to make the most of this emerging technology.

```css
# example1 {
  background-color:black;
  color:white;
  border-radius:15px;
  width:50%;
  padding:1em;
}
```
```html
<div id ="example1">
  Here is an example of the border-radius property
</div>
```

<a href="archives/examples/borderradius.htm" target="_blank">Border Radius Example</a>
