#Outlines

We previously had a look at the border properties, which allows you to draw a border around an element. With the outline properties, you can get an extra border, for extra visual attention for your element. Take a look at the following <a href="archives/examples/outline1.htm" target="_blank">Outline Example</a>.

##Differences between border and outline

From our first example, the border and outline properties may look identical, but there are actually a couple of pretty important differences: 

- You cannot apply a different outline width, style and color for the four sides of an element, like you can with the border - the values provided will be used for all four sides of the element.
- The outline is not a part of the element's dimensions, like the border is, meaning that no matter how thick an outline you apply to the element, the dimensions of the element won't change. This also means that the browser won't reserve the required space for your outline - you will need to make sure that it can fit it, without overlapping other elements.

The outline property is a shorthand property, which translates into the outline-width, outline-style and outline-color properties.

As well as the solid outline style, there are quite a few <a href="archives/examples/outline2.htm" target="_blank">Outline Styles</a> to choose from (just like for borders): hidden, dotted, dashed, double, groove, ridge, inset and outset.

##Outline offset

A cool thing about outlines is that you can create a distance between it and the border, if you want to, by using the outline-offset property. It takes a CSS length unit and the empty space between the border (if there is any) and the outline will be transparent and thereby take the background colour of the parent element.

~~~
body {
        background-color:slategray;
}

.box {
        background-color: #eee;
        outline: 3px solid LightCoral;
        outline-offset: 10px;
        border: 3px solid black;
        padding: 5px 10px;
        width:80%;
        margin:1em auto;
}
~~~

<a href="archives/examples/outline3.htm" target="_blank">Outline Example (with an offset)</a>