
# Formula

The formula is ***an + b***,  where **b** is the offset, and **a** is a multiple.

Examples:
<style>
table.mine {
    border-collapse:collapse;
    border: 1px solid black;
  }
  th.mine, td.mine {
    border: 1px solid black;
    padding: 0.2em;
  }

 th.mine {
    background-color:#00ff00;
}

 td.mine1 {
    background-color:#00ff00;
}
 th.mine2, td.mine2 {
    border: 1px solid black;
    padding: 0.2em;
  }

 th.mine2 {
    text-align:left;
}
</style>

<table class = "mine">
<tr><th class = "mine2" >Formula</th><th class = "mine2" >Explanation</th></tr>
<tr><td class = "mine2">table tr:nth-of-type(n)</td><td class = "mine2">Selects all table rows.</td></tr>
<tr><td class = "mine2">table tr:nth-of-type(n+2)</td><td class = "mine2">Selects all table rows except the first row (starting with the second row).</td></tr>
<tr><td class = "mine2">table tr:nth-of-type(2n)</td><td class = "mine2">Selects every other row of our table.</td></tr>
<tr><td class = "mine2">table tr:nth-of-type(3n)</td><td class = "mine2">Selects every third row of our table.</td></tr>
<tr><td class = "mine2">table tr:nth-of-type(2n+4)</td><td class = "mine2">Selects every other row of our table, starting with the fourth row.</td></tr>
<tr><td class = "mine2">table td:nth-of-type(2)</td><td class = "mine2">Selects the second column.</td></tr>
<tr><td class = "mine2">table td:nth-of-type(2n)</td><td class = "mine2">Selects every other column of our table.</td></tr>
<tr><td class = "mine2">table td:nth-of-type(-n+3)</td><td class = "mine2">Selects first three columns of our table.</td></tr>
</table>
<br>
In this <a href = "archives/Class Htmls/nthtype1.htm" target="_blank">example</a>, every second column is selected; and in this 
<a href = "archives/Class Htmls/nthtype2.htm" target="_blank">example</a>, the first two columns are selected.
<br>    
Likewise the ***nth-last-of-type*** selector works exactly the same way, except that it counts backwards through the children, starting at the last child first.  
<br>
Examples:
<table class = "mine">
<tr><th class = "mine2" >Formula</th><th class = "mine2" >Explanation</th></tr>
<tr><td class = "mine2">table tr:nth-last-of-type(2)</td><td class = "mine2">Selects the second last row.</td></tr>
<tr><td class = "mine2">table tr:nth-last-of-type(-n+3)</td><td class = "mine2">Selects the bottom 3 rows in the table.</td></tr>
</table>
<br>
In this <a href = "archives/Class Htmls/mytable.htm" target="_blank">example</a>, we enhance the table by selecting and modifying:

- each row (tbody tr);
- each even row (tbody tr:nth-of-type(even));
- each odd row (tbody tr:nth-of-type(odd));
- all columns starting with the second column (tbody td:nth-of-type(n+2));
- the last row and column (tbody tr:last-of-type,  tbody td:last-of-type).
- the second last row tbody tr:nth-last-of-type(2)); and
- the table data inside the last 3 rows (
tbody tr:nth-last-of-type(-n+3) td).

