# CSS Recap Exercise One

1. For this Exercise you need to download [Lab03](archives/Lab03.zip).	
2. Create a sub folder called css.
3. Open your text editor and create a blank document. Save the file as *witstyle.css* in the css sub folder.
4. Add the following rules to the .css file (witstyle.css in the css sub folder):
  1. Add a body selector: background colour :  hexFFFFE0; font colour : hex 0066cc (can be shortened to hex 06c); font family : Verdana or Geneva or Arial or Helvetica or sans-serif.
  2. Add an h1 and h2 group selector: font family : Georgia or "Times New Roman" or Times or serif; font colour: hex 666666 (can be shortened to hex 666).
  3. Add an individual h1 selector: font size : 1.5em.
  4. Add an individual h2 selector: font size : 1.25em.
  5. Add an ul selector: list style type : none; width : 18%.
  6. Add an li selector: margin : 1em 0; background colour : hex B0C4DE; padding: .5em; border left : solid black 5px;  border right : solid black 5px. 
  7. Add an a selector:  font weight : bold; text align : center.
  8. Add an a:link and a:visited group selector: font colour: navy; text decoration : none; 
  9. Add an a:hover pseudo class selector: text decoration : underline.
  10. Add an a:active pseudo class selector: font colour : aqua.
  11. Add a descendant selector p a:link and p a:visited group selector: text decoration : underline.
  12. Add a descendant selector p a:hover:  text decoration : none.
  13. Add an img selector: float: right;  margin left:1%.
  14. Add a class p.news: font family:Cursive. 
5. Modify the existing .htm files as follows:
  1. Add a link to the stylesheet in the head section of the 3 files: **index.htm**; **aboutwit.htm**; and **director.htm**.
  2. Modify the second paragraph in the index.htm page to incorporate the p.news class.
  3. Modify the third paragraph in aboutwit.htm to incorporate the p.news class.
  4. Modify the fourth and fifth paragraphs in director.htm to incorporate the p.news class.
