
#The list-style-position Property
Both ordered and unordered lists are displayed so that their item markers align vertically,
and the text associated with each item is indented from the marker. This gives a neat,
orderly appearance and is almost always the right design choice.

CSS permits you to define a list in such a way that the item markers line up vertically, but the
text in the line items wraps under each item marker as it returns to the left margin. To create
this effect, use the <i>list style-position</i> property and give it a value of <i>inside</i>.
The following example shows 2 lists, one of which uses the default <i>list-style-position</i> value of <i>outside</i>, while the second has a value of <i>inside</i>.

<ul style="list-style-position:outside;">
<li>This list uses the default <i>outside</i> setting for the <i>list style-position</i> property. Thus, the item marker is outdented from the text, and appears to be outside
the text area.Thus, the item marker is outdented from the text, and appears to be outside
the text area.</li>
<li>This list uses the default <i>outside</i> setting for the <i>list style-position</i> property. Thus, the item marker is outdented from the text, and appears to be outside
the text area.</li>
</ul>
<ul style="list-style-position:inside;">
<li>This list uses the <i>inside</i> setting for the <i>list style-position</i> property. As you can see, wrapped list item text appears immediately under the item marker. As you can see, wrapped list item text appears immediately under the item marker.</li>
<li>This list uses the <i>inside</i> setting for the <i>list style-position</i> property. As you can see, wrapped list item text appears immediately under the item marker.</li>
</ul>
