# The display element

HTML elements can be displayed in many ways but the two most common are block or inline.

- **Block:** Takes up the full width available, with a new line before and after (display:block;)
- **Inline:** Takes up only as much width as it needs, and does not force new lines (display:inline;)
- **Not displayed:** If you do not want the item displayed (i.e. not visible), we can use display:none;

## Block

A block level element will naturally span the entire available width, without concern about how much horizontal space it actually needs. As a result of that, a block level element will automatically push the following content to a new line, so by default, two block level elements can't stand next to each other - the first will push the second one to the next line.

Examples of elements that default to be displayed as block include:

- h1...h6
- p
- div
- ul, ol, dl
- li, dt, dd
- blockquote
- table

## Inline

An inline element does not break the current flow. An inline element only takes up the space it needs to render its content and after that, more inline elements can be displayed.
So here I’ve got a paragraph going on, and I’m going to add a `<span>` tag that has a <span style="font-style:italic;
   background-color:yellow;">yellow background and italic text.</span> See how it just fits right in with the flow of the text?

More elements that are naturally inline-style include:

- a (links)
- img
- form elements

A good way to remember the difference (between block and inline elements) is to think of an inline element as a line of text/sentence and a block level element as a paragraph - the sentence can stand together with other sentences to form an entire paragraph, but the paragraph breaks the natural flow to create space around it.

### Block vs. Inline Example

You can change the display property of any element. Although each HTML element has its natural display style, you can over-ride these in CSS. This can be very useful when you want your page to look a particular way while using semantically-correct HTML.

Say you want to provide a list of items, but you don’t want a big bulleted list. You just want to say that you’re going to the store to buy: some fizzy drinks, a chainsaw, and some nylon stockings. Or maybe you want a nice toolbar, which is strictly a list (of links) and so should be marked up as a `<ul>`. Here’s the code:

```html
<nav>
<ul>
   <li><a href="#">Home</a></li>
   <li><a href="#">About us</a></li>
   <li><a href="#">Products</a></li>
   <li><a href="#">FAQs</a></li>
   <li><a href="#">Contact us</a></li>
</ul>
</nav>
```

This will look like this: <a href="archives/examples/blocklist.htm" target="_blank">Block displayed list</a>

Now we will add style for the list items so that they are now displayed inline rather than block:

```css
nav ul li{
  display:inline;
  background-color:#eee;
  border:1px solid;
  border-color:#f3f3f3 #bbb #bbb #f3f3f3;
  padding:.5em;
}
```

Now, it looks like this: <a href="archives/examples/inlinelist.htm" target="_blank">Inline displayed list</a>

**Note:** the width and height properties are ignored for inline elements. Instead, you can use the line-height property to make an inline element smaller or bigger, as the space between each line grows or shrinks.


## Visibility versus Display

So far, all the elements we have worked with has been visible, which is probably what you want most of the time. However, CSS does contain a couple of visibility related properties, which can come in handy in a lot of situations. For instance, you want to hide a part of the text until a user clicks a "Show more" button.

CSS has two properties used to control visibility: The visibility property and the display property. They are used in different situations and act differently in several ways. In this section, we'll look into both of them and see just how they differ.

### The visibility property

The initial value of the visibility property is visible, simply meaning that the element is visible unless you change it - that makes sense.

```css
.box {
        width: 100px;
        height: 100px;
        background-color: CornflowerBlue;
}
```
```html
<div class="box">Box 1</div>
<div class="box" style="visibility: hidden;">Box 2</div>
<div class="box">Box 3</div>
```

<a href="archives/examples/visibility1.htm" target="_blank">Visibility Example</a>

In this example, there are three boxes but the middle one has been made invisible by setting the visibility property to hidden. If you try the example, you will notice one very important thing: While the second box is not there, it does leave a pretty big hole in the page. Or in other words: The element can't be seen, but the browser still reserves the space for it!

This is one of the most important differences between the visibility property and the display property - elements hidden with the visibility property still affects layout as if it was visible, sort of like a completely transparent element, while elements hidden by the display property doesn't (the browser will treat it as if it wasn't there).

### The display property

Let's try the above example, but instead of the visibility property, we'll use the display property, so that you may see the difference:

```css
.box {
        width: 100px;
        height: 100px;
        background-color: CornflowerBlue;
}
```
```html
<div class="box">Box 1</div>
<div class="box" style="display: none;">Box 2</div>
<div class="box">Box 3</div>
```

<a href="archives/examples/visibility2.htm" target="_blank">Display Example</a>

If you try the examples, you'll immediately notice the difference: The second box has vanished without a trace, when we used the none value for the display property.
