#Positioning

The positioning of elements on a webpage is very fluid. Unlike printing, you don't have a fixed size that you can adjust everything to, because websites are visited from screens in all sizes, from small cell phones to huge desktop monitors, all running in different resolutions. For that reason, elements in a webpage are automatically laid out right after each other, in the order in which they are specified. This positioning model is called **static** and all elements use it by default.

In this section, we are going to see how you can position certain sections of the site in very specific areas on the screen. Positioning is controlled mainly by using the position property, which can have the following values:


##Static

This is the default. An element with position: static always has the position the normal flow of the page gives it. It cannot be moved from this position; a static element ignores any top, bottom, left, or right declarations.


##Relative Positioning

Like static positioning, relative positioning is in normal flow and can have four reference properties: top, right, bottom and left. With relative positioning, any value that you apply will be implemented relative to the item's original location before this positioning rule was applied. We will illustrate it with an example.

~~~
.nudged {
  position: relative;
  top: 10px;
  left: 10px;
}
~~~

<a href="archives/examples/relative.htm" target="_blank">Relative Positioning Example</a>

Notice how the markup has moved our paragraph across and down by 10 pixels so that neither the left- nor right-hand sides of that paragraph line up with the others. If this was absolute rather than relative it would be 10 pixels left and down from the browser's viewport.

When a browser meets a relatively positioned element, it will simply push it in the direction you instruct it to (by using top/left or bottom/right properties) as illustrated in this <a href="archives/examples/relative2.htm" target="_blank">example</a>, but it will still just allocate the space that the element was originally meant to take up.


##Absolute Positioning

Absolute positioning is not in normal flow. Position: absolute has four reference properties: top, right, bottom and left. If no parent elements have their position defined, that is, they are all static, then top is 0 and left is 0, the top left references for body. However, if a parent element has a position: relative property, then position: absolute takes its reference from the parent.

In the following example, we use top and left to position a div 200 pixels from the top of the browser viewport, and 200 pixels from the left edge.

~~~
#redblock {
  position: absolute;
  top: 200px;
  left: 200px;
  color: white;
  background-color: red;
  width: 90px;
  height: 90px;
  padding: 5px;
}
~~~

This <a href="archives/examples/absolute1.htm" target="_blank">example</a> shows how the red block appears on the screen. 

The body is the containing block so it is positioned 200 pixels from the top and 200 pixels from the left of the browser body.

We will now position another block (yellow) inside the red block.The following is the CSS code for both box elements.

~~~
#redblock {
  position: relative;
  background-color: red;
  width: 100px;
  height: 100px;
}

#yellowblock {
  position: absolute;
  top: 20px;
  left: 20px;
  background-color: yellow;
  color: red;
  width: 50px;
  height: 50px;
  padding: 5px;
}
~~~

If we use the following html code, then the yellow block appears inside the red block. The body is the containing block for the red block so it is positioned as specified. The red block is the containing block for the yellow block so it is positioned 20 pixels from the top and 20 pixels from the left of the red block.

~~~
<div id="redblock">
    <div id="yellowblock">Yellow!
    </div>
</div>
~~~

See how this looks: <a href="archives/examples/absolute2.htm" target="_blank">Example</a>

Now if we use the use the following html code instead, then the yellow block does not appear inside the red block. The body is the containing block for both boxes. The body is also the containing block for the yellow block so it is positioned 20 pixels from the top and 20 pixels from the left of the body (the top left of the page).

~~~
<div id="redblock"></div>
<div id="yellowblock">Yellow!</div>
~~~

See how it looks this way: <a href="archives/examples/absolute3.htm" target="_blank">Example</a>


##Fixed

Fixed positioning works pretty much like absolute positioning, with one important difference: An element with a fixed position stays in the designated place, even if you scroll up or down. This allows you to make "sticky elements", like menus, which are always at the top, bottom, left or right of the viewport, no matter how far you scroll. Fixed positioning is not in normal flow either.

Another important difference is that while you may have an absolute positioned element be positioned relative to its parent element, this is not possible with a fixed element - it's always placed in relation to the viewport (usually the browser window).

~~~
nav {
  left: 0px;
  width: 15em;
  position: fixed;
}

#content {
  margin-left: 15em;
}
~~~

<a href="archives/examples/fixed.htm" target="_blank">Fixed Positioning Example</a>