#The background-size property

The background-size property specifies the size of the background image. 

*background-size: length|percentage|cover|contain; *

- **length:** Sets the height and width of the background image. The first value sets the width, the second value sets the height. If only one value is given, the second is set to "auto". 
- **percentage:** Sets the height and width of the background image in percent of the parent element. The first value sets the width, the second value sets the height. If only one value is given, the second is set to "auto". 
- **cover:** Scales the image to the smallest size such that both its width and its height can fit inside the content area. cover tells the browser to make sure the image always covers the entire container, even if it has to stretch the image or cut a little bit off one of the edges. 
- **contain:** Scales the image to the largest size such that both its width and its height can fit inside the content area. contain tells the browser to always show the whole image, even if that leaves a little space to the sides or bottom.

**Note:** Where one value is a defined length or percentage and the other value is auto (or blank), the background image will be scaled according to the specified length or percentage in such a manner that its intrisic proportions (ratio) are maintained.


##Examples

View the following examples of the background-size property set to different values. You can right-click to 'View page source' and select the CSS file to see the code for each example.

- <a href="archives/examples/bgimage7.htm" target="_blank">Example One</a> shows an image with the background size set to 100px width and height.

- <a href="archives/examples/bgimage8.htm" target="_blank">Example Two</a> shows three images with the background size set to 100% width and height, but with different sizes for the parent container.

- <a href="archives/examples/bgimage9.htm" target="_blank">Example Three</a> shows an image with the background size set to 25% width and height set to auto.

- <a href="archives/examples/bgimage9a.htm" target="_blank">Example Four</a> shows an image with the background size set to 120px width and height set to auto.

- <a href="archives/examples/bgimage10.htm" target="_blank">Example Five</a> shows three images with the background size set to cover. The image is scaled to fit the entire container but, if that has a different aspect ratio, the image will be cropped.

- <a href="archives/examples/bgimage11.htm" target="_blank">Example Six</a> shows three images with the background size set to contain. The image will grow or shrink proportionally but the width and height will not exceed the container’s dimensions.

- <a href="archives/examples/bgimage6.htm" target="_blank">Example Seven</a> shows a small parent container that contains a background image with no background size applied.

- <a href="archives/examples/bgimage6a.htm" target="_blank">Example Eight</a> shows a small parent container that contains a background image with a background size applied (100% 100%). There is no padding applied for the text.

- <a href="archives/examples/bgimage6b.htm" target="_blank">Example Nine</a> shows a small parent container that contains a background image with a background size applied. There is padding applied for the text.